In this video we are going to be doing
some of the styling so we can go from this
to something a little bit closer to how this looks,
and we're gonna be using style components
obviously to do that.
Before we get into that, let me talk real quick
about how to organize your style components.
There's a couple different ways that you can do it.
First, and the most basic, is you can just
put the style component in the same file
as the component that you're styling.
That works well when the only thing
that you're using that style component for
is the thing that's also in that file.
However, there is many cases where you
want to reuse a style component because
maybe it's a specific button,
maybe it's a list of things, maybe it's this item...
And if that's the case then you probably wanna put
it in a separate file and export it from that file
so that you can reuse it throughout your application.
So what I usually like to do is just write
the style component directly inside of the same component.
Like if I was styling this page,
I would write it directly inside of Page.js
and then if I found oh,
I actually need that for something else
then what I'll do is I'll ex refactor it and export it
into it's own file so that I can import it
and reuse it in this page as well as maybe
some of the other components that I may have.
I find that that's easiest for authoring where
if I'm working on both like the markup as well as the CSS
then I can just be working in one single file
and then kick it off to a separate file
when I need to reuse it.
Other options are you can go in your components folder
and I like to have a styled, a styles folder
and I put all of my styled components in there.
So we've got a close button, where you import style
components, you make your button, and then you export it.
You have a form button, here's some key frames in here
and we'll take a look at that in just a little bit
once we get into loading states.
And you see that I've put everything into here
and any time I need to use this specific form
on the website, I just need to import the form
style components and just go ahead and use it.
Some other people like to maybe, if I show you here,
they like to have folders for each specific one.
So it may be in your components folder,
you have a header folder, and then inside of that
you'll have an index.js, which will contain
the actual component itself.
And then maybe you'll have a styles.js,
which will contain all the styles for the header.
And then maybe you'll have like a test.js,
that will include all of the tests
for that specific component, and then anything else
that's related to this header component
can sort of live in its own directory.
That's a fairly good option once you get into
applications that have dozens and dozens of components
However I find it gets a little bit confusing
for especially when you're doing a tutorial,
it gets a little bit confusing when you have
30 index.js files in your actual application.
So I am going the route where I call it what it is
inside of the components folder
and then if I have a reusable style I will
stick it in the styles folder
that is exported from there, I can import it as we go.
So take a look at some of the different options
for managing your style components.
Again, chat with your team to see what is best for you.
Now let's go into this page.js here
and first thing I wanna do is replace this div here
with a sort of a styled page so
we're gonna import styled from styled components,
and we're gonna make a styled page.
So say const styled page is equal to styled.div
and the inside of that we can say background is black,
and no background is white and the
color is going to be black.
We're gonna come back and swap out that black color
with a theme value, but for now we're gonna
hard code it as black.
Then all we need to do is swap this out with the styled page
and everything should look exactly how we have it.
Now what we wanna do is in here,
if I have like a really wide website,
I don't want the items to go all the way.
I do want the header and the search to go all the way across
but everything else inside of that page I want
it to be constrained to I don't know,
a thousand pixels, 1200 pixels wide.
So what we'll do it we'll make an inner component const.
Inner is equal to styled.div, and we'll just put a
max width of 1000px or so on it.
And we'll say margin zero auto, and padding two rem.
And we'll come back to that, how that rem is sized
with global styling in the next video.
Then we just take our inner component that we have
put the this.props.children inside of it,
and there we go, you can see that it's not being sized
or it is now being sized and we can test it by
saying background red, and you'll see that this thing
is now centered and constraining its own width.
Good, so we have our styled page,
we have our inner component.
Next thing that we need to do is to actually
not hard code these values of 1000px and of black.
We actually wanna stick those values into a theme
so if you are coming from sass or something like that,
you'll know that you can, you can just have like
a variables file or at the top of your sass file
you can declare what all your variables are
and then anywhere below that and
anywhere in any of your other files,
you can just use those variables
and that's really handy if you have specific colors or
sizes or fonts or anything that you want to reuse
through your application, and also if you wanna
just change a specific black color,
you don't have to do a huge find and replace on
your application, you just need to change it in your theme.
So styled components has this concept of themes
and your themes are simply just an
object full of property values that
you wish to reuse throughout your application.
So just say const theme is equal to an object
and I'm going to just paste them in here.
If you wanna grab them yourself either pause the video
and type them in or hit the finished files
and grab page.js for the theme value.
What do we got here? We got our specific
reds, blacks, grays, we got our max width,
and a bs which is a box shadow that I like to reuse
fairly often in it.
And the only thing that you really need to know here
is that these are strings because this is not CSS
like a styled component is,
these are, this is an object that needs to
have quotes around each of them.
I do it myself all the time and accidentally
I just space out and forget to put the quotes around it.
And then your application starts to break.
So what we wanna do with this theme now
is to go into our styled components and
we wanna import two new things.
As well as we wanna import styled,
we wanna import the theme provider,
and we also want to import something called inject global,
and we're gonna learn about that in the next video.
Let's just import it while we're there.
Then we wanna go down to the styled page
and just wrap the entire application in the theme provider
and this is actually pretty neat,
it's using something called a react context api
and if you've never heard of the react context api,
I've gotta-- react context, if you take a quick look
at Google videos, there we go
I'm the first and the second video
if you search for react context
Little 10, 15 minute video showing you how
react context works but at a high level what it does
is it allows you to specify values up high,
like our theme and then any child maybe at six
or seven levels deep can then access those values
without having to pass down the values from
component to component, it's via context.
And that's great if you've ever been what's called
prop drilling where you have to pass down values
and it gets to be a little bit hairy.
So we're going to take the theme provider component
and wrap the entire application in that,
and then the theme provider expects you
to pass at a theme object, which is just a
regular old object of property values that we
have to find right here.
So if we give that a save now, refresh the page,
everything's looking good now what we can try to do
to use it is let's replace this max width right here
we use interpolation, which is
a dollar sign curly brackets.
Remember we're just in back text here
which is template literals
and we can give it a little arrow function
which we have props and then you could always
access your theme on props.theme.
And then anything that is inside of
this theme object, in our case it's the max width value.
Let's just try it once more,
if we were to do background props.theme.red,
you can see that that specific red is being pulled in
whenever I save it so that's how you do it
and that's kinda cool because you could have like
a dark theme or a light theme
and then depending on a setting
that the user has in the browser,
you could pass in a different object for each one
and totally change how the thing looks
without messing with classes or anything like that.
I think that's pretty neat.
So I'll remove this background here.
I also want to swap out this color here
from black to the specific black that I like to use,
the 393939, so I'll use dollar sign curly bracket
we have props, then we return props.theme.black
and you can hardly tell but if you were to
inspect one of these suckers here
you should see that we are using 393939
instead of regular black.
So that is our theme provider,
that's a couple components,
I'm leaving these in this file because
I don't need to reuse them anywhere else.
If that bugs you, then you can put them
in your own files, export them from that file,
import them into here and then
use them just as we have here.
Now next up what we wanna do is
to style our header.js so actually I don't need form open,
I don't need medit open,
let's just open header.js and you see
that we have all these like empty divs here,
we're gonna swap those out with a couple styled components
so things will start to look pretty nice.
First thing I wanna do is let's wrap this
sick fits in an h1 tag and put that inside of it.
And you know the other thing that we need to do is
if we wanna link this back to the home page,
we actually need to wrap it in a next.js link component.
Let's import the link component from next link
and then we will just simply take the link component,
put the anchor link inside of it,
and then we have to take the href
out of there and into this one.
So if I give it a-- oh the href's gotta go to
forward slash which is the home page.
So if I'm on the cell page, I should be able to click
there we go, brings me back to the home page.
Good, now let's work on styling this logo here.
Instead of an h1 tag, I actually want it
to be a logo component and that's what
we're gonna do up here.
Oh, we need to import styled components first so
import styled from styled components and then const the logo
is equal to styled.h1 and let's just go ahead
and start styling it so font size is four rem,
the margin left is two rem,
by the way I'm using Emmet here in JSX.
And if you're curious about how to get Emmet to work
inside of JSX...
Emmet.includelanguages,
javascript is set as javascript react
and that will allow you to use Emmet both for CSS
as well as HTML inside of your .js files.
So we've got here margin left two rem,
position relative, z index two,
transform skew negative seven degrees.
We'll see how we're doing here.
Oh, obviously you don't see any changes
cause we need to take this logo component and
swap it out with this h1 so now it's just a logo component
and now it starts to look good.
We haven't done any fonts or any base styling just yet
because those are gonna be global styles
that we are hitting in the next video.
However, inside of this logo now we need to
just style the link tag, so we'll select the a,
and see what I mean about just being able to select a
and you don't have to worry about it being any a on the page
you know that it's just the anchor link inside of this
h1 so padding 0.5 rem 1 rem,
background is going to be, I have this tp snippet
that I've given myself so all I have to do is
type colon tp and then it will give me
props props.theme.red, color is white
text transform uppercase, text decoration none,
And okay, and what I also want to do is
just on this h1 in general,
I wanna say when we hit less than 1300 pixels,
I wanna center it and the way that you can do media queries
inside of a styled component is you simply just write
the media query where you want it to apply,
and then it will apply to that once you hit it.
So we just say at media, max width at 1300px.
I wanna get margin zero,
and I wanna say text align center.
And there we go.
Doo doo doo, back and forth back and forth,
you see how those media queries are kicking in.
You just have to put the media queries inside
of the actual selector itself.
If I only wanted that to apply to the link,
I could put a media query inside of the link here or
I could write a selector inside of the media query as well.
Depends on how you wanna approach it,
both will work just fine.
So that's looking good to me,
obviously fonts aren't just yet.
Now we wanna work on the layout of the navigation,
and that is this div right here.
So what we're gonna do is make another component
called styled header so const styled header
is equal to styled.header
and let's just go ahead and swap out this div immediately
with the styled header
and at this point I'm just gonna write all of the CSS.
I'll talk through it so if you are curious about
the layout and the grid and the styling of the header,
you can stick with me, otherwise feel free
to just copy this from the answer
and I'll see you in the next video.
There's nothing else significant that I'm doing
in the rest of this video other than styling.
So either bye or let's do it.
So first thing I'm gonna do is select the bar selector
and we wanna border bottom 10px solid
and then I wanna use my theme props black.
Ooh yeah, looking good.
Wanna display grid on this sucker.
Grid template columns.
Auto 1fr. Justify content, space between.
This will all make sense once we start getting
elements in our actual navigation.
And align items stretch
and we wanna put a media 1300px.
And since we've used this 1300px twice now,
you could probably also put that in your theme,
and then just have it as a reusable break point
which would be kinda cool.
And then when we hit that, I just wanna
bring everything down to 1fr. So not two columns, just one
and we wanna justify content center.
Looking good, now I also wanna grab the sub bar.
Sub bar, that is here. We've got the bar
which has the logo and the nav inside of it.
And then the secondary sub bar we'll have our search
as well as, actually just the search.
Let's take a look at it right now.
This is our main bar here, the nav in it.
And then our secondary bar is just the search inside of here
and then we have a third which is the cart
that is gonna pop out from the side but we'll
cross that bridge once we come to it.
So then we'll go back up here and style the sub bar.
Display grid on that thing,
grid template columns is 1fr and atuo.
Border bottom px solid.
And I'm going to use my snippet there again, theme props.
It's going to be light gray.
And let's take a quick look, whoops.
Oh, not 10px, one px, and it's looking good.
By the way, I realize that I didn't capital case that
in my theme, so here it should be capital G gray,
but because I have used it as a lowercase g
in some of my other components, I'm going to leave it as is.
If you really wanted to do it,
you could just say theme.lightgrey
is equal to theme.lightgrey.
That would just fix it but not too worried about it.
Just know that there's no capital g on the
gray that we have there.
So this is looking a little bit better.
In the next video we are going to cover both
typography as well as some of the global styles.
Because obviously we have like this base,
there's no reset that we've done in here.
We've got some margin and padding that's going on here,
we've got this ugly Times New Roman.
We need to get away from all of that
and apply it to the entire page
so we'll see you in that video.